.. _faq:

***
FAQ
***

=======
General
=======

What is Start9Labs?
-------------------
Start9Labs is a company based in Denver, CO that builds the Embassy and EmbassyOS.

What is the Embassy?
--------------------
The Embassy is a "shelf-top" computer built using a `Raspberry Pi <https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-4-model-b/>`_ for hardware and running EmbassyOS software.  Learn more :ref:`here <embassy>`.

What is EmbassyOS?
------------------
EmbassyOS is a new kind of Operating System (OS).  It is built from the ground up to allow anyone to easily run thier own 'cloud,' remove their dependence on Big Tech, and own their own data.  EmbassyOS allows anyone to easily self-host their own software services.  It handles all operations of the device, including managing the Service Marketplace, Services, Backups, Updates, data, and much more.  Learn more :ref:`here <embassyos>`.

What are EmbassyOS Services?
----------------------------
A Service can be any piece of software added to the Marketplace.  All services are "self-hosted," meaning that you are in complete control of your data.  This means you can run your own "cloud!"  Learn more :ref:`here <managing-services>` and see our currently :ref:`Available Services <available-services>`.

Does the Embassy ship worldwide?
--------------------------------
Yes.

Does the Embassy have international electrical plugs?
-----------------------------------------------------
Power supplies for EU, AU, US, and UK are available.

===========
Basic Usage
===========

Is it easy to use?
------------------
Yes!  The Embassy is designed to be plugged into power and internet, and after a short setup, is immediately ready to use.  Getting services is as easy as getting apps for a smartphone.

So I can run my own cloud?
--------------------------
Yes! No special skills or knowledge are required to host all your own services and replace those previously thought "necessary" for modern digital life.

Can I run multiple Embassies?
-----------------------------
Yes, but there is currently no way to synchronize or federate them.  We are working on ways to make this possible in the future.

Is the software Open Source?
----------------------------
Yes! EmbassyOS is open sourced under the `Start9 Personal Use License <https://start9labs.com/license>`_.  Some of our other projects are currently open sourced under MIT. You can find these in the Start9 Labs `GitHub repository <https://github.com/Start9Labs>`_.

Is there a product warranty?
----------------------------
Yes! Start9 commits, to the best of our ability, to serving each beta Embassy product released until the wild. We will resolve any issue encountered with our provided hardware or software in a personalized matter.  We strive to provide highly available, quality customer service.

The fastest way to get support is via our `Telegram <https://t.me/start9_labs>`_ or `Matrix <https://matrix.to/#/!lMnRwPWnyQvOfAoEnD:matrix.start9labs.com>`_ channels.  You can also `email us <support@start9labs.com>`_.  Please do not hesitate to reach out!

=============================
Embassy (Device, OS, and DIY)
=============================

Can I run EmbassyOS on a VPS or VM?
-----------------------------------
No, and we do not advise this. It is designed to be used on a RaspberryPi.

Is it possible to use the EmbassyOS on my own hardware?
-------------------------------------------------------
Yes! You can follow the diy guide :ref:`here <diy>`. This option is great for people who already own the necessary hardware or who live outside the US and want to save on shipping and customs fees.

Additionally, EmbassyOS is available to build from source under the Start9 Personal Use License. If you have the time and energy, it is possible to download and compile EmbassyOS yourself, for free, with the caveat that your “Embassy” will not have a product key generated by us. This means you will miss out on the perks that come along with purchasing from us, which will grow over time.

Do I plug the Embassy into my computer?
---------------------------------------
No.  The Embassy only needs to be plugged into power and internet, just like your router.  You can set it up right by your router and forget about it.

Are my Internet requests anonymous and secure?
----------------------------------------------
EmbassyOS and every service on the Embassy serve their own Tor Hidden Services with unique Tor addresses. The private keys used to create these addresses are generated on your phone or computer when you first set up the Embassy. No one, not even Start9, has any idea what your Tor addresses are, let alone the password(s) you choose to authenticate with them.

Can I mine Bitcoin with this?
-----------------------------
No, you can not.

=========================
Setup and Troubleshooting
=========================

What do I do first?
-------------------
Simply plug the device into power and internet, typically from your home internet router.  That's it!  After this, get the :ref:`Setup App <initial-setup>`, and follow the instructions.

How do I know if my Embassy is running?
---------------------------------------
After plugging into power and internet, you will hear 2 distinct sounds: first, a “bep” ‐ indicating the device is powering on, and second, a “chime” ‐ indicating the device is ready for setup.

What if I can't connect to my Embassy?
--------------------------------------
Please ensure your phone / computer is connected to the same wired or wireless network as your Embassy.  Be careful that you are not on a seperate or "guest" network.

========
Services
========

My Embassy is set up, now what?
-------------------------------
You can now access your Embassy and find the Services you want from the "Marketplace" tab, then clicking "Install."  The Service will let you know if you need any "dependencies," or pre-requisite Services, first.  After you have a Service installed, don't forget to "Start" the service.

What if I cannot connect to a Service?
--------------------------------------
Please make sure the service is started by viewing it in the Services tab in the Embassy dashboard menu. A green indicator bar should be visible.

Why does the Bitcoin service take so long to be ready?
------------------------------------------------------
On first install, the Bitcoin service must verify the entire history of transactions in order to verify transactions going forward.  This can take approximately a week depending on your internet connection.  You can continue to use the Embassy normally in the meantime.

Does the Embassy run a full archival Bitcoin node?
--------------------------------------------------
The Embassy runs a full node, but does not run a full *archival* node, it's pruned. This means it does not store the entire Blockchain.  As it syncs, it discards blocks and transactions it does not need.
It is fully validating and verifying consensus all the way from Genesis. Really, the only reason to store the entire Blockchain is if you want to run a block explorer.  Learn more :ref:`here <node>`.

I want to understand in depth how a Service works and it's available configuration options.  Where can I go to learn more?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Depending on the app, the config options can be quite involved. Bitcoin Core, for example, has an enormous amount of complex options, almost none of which are useful to a normal user doing normal things. We chose some very sane defaults that should work for normal use cases. Here is an example config from the Bitcoin `GitHub <https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/share/examples/bitcoin.conf>`.
By reading the descriptions in the link above, as well as doing some extra searching on your favorite search engine, you can begin to discover all the crazy ways in which someone can customize their Bitcoin node. Here is another list of `possible options <https://en.bitcoinwiki.org/wiki/Running_Bitcoind>`.
We translated much of (but not all of) the tons of options into a clean and easy-to-use GUI with toggles, dropdowns, inputs, etc, which is what you're seeing in your config screen. If you notice the little "?" icons on the left of each option, clicking them will provide a brief description as to what the option does. Also, our config GUI restricts the possible values you can enter such that you don't accidentally crash Bitcoin. That said, be very careful about just randomly changing things, lest your node starts to behave strangely.

